# LOBroutes.py

Jorge Luis Borges’ short story <i>The Library of Babel</i> (1941) is about a vast and virtually infinite library. The pages of the books in the library contain every possible permutation of 25 basic characters (twenty-two lowercase letters, the comma, the full-stop, and the space); most of the books are pure gibberish, and no two books are the same. Borges’ narrator and other wanderers explore the vast universe of books in an effort to find a book that explains the enigmatic library. As an artist and researcher interested in different forms of wandering, Borges’ story inspired me to explore this idea of searching for meaning within textual nonsense in a psychogeographic context. 

In 2024, I developed a Python program called LOBroutes.py. The program generates a “route”—a random string of 410 alphanumeric characters. Users are tasked with interpreting the string, or parts of the string, as a navigational pathway through physical space. My favorite way to use the program is to “draw” characters out through movement, essentially creating invisible geoglyphs with my feet. This approach is similar to the relatively recent trend of GPS drawing, where an artist uses a Global Positioning System (GPS) device and follows a pre-planned route to create a large-scale picture, pattern, or text. It is important to note that users of my program can create their own interpretations and sets of rules, and this is highly encouraged. The alphanumeric character-routes generated by the program are not meant to tell users where to go, but rather, prompt them to playfully (and perhaps inefficiently and even asemically) move through spaces. The logic of the program is intentionally divergent from conventional navigation tools like street signs, GPS, and even commercial traffic flow, which all to a varying degree reinforce a limited urban sensorium. At its core, LOBroutes.py is a simple tool for those interested in phygital psychogeographic experiences.



<b>Notes/Links:</b>

“There is no combination of characters one can make—dhcmrlchtdj, for example—that the divine Library has not foreseen and that in one or more of its secret tongues does not hide a terrible significance. There is no syllable one can speak that is not filled with tenderness and terror, that is not, in one of those languages, the mighty name of a god.”<br>
https://www.theparisreview.org/blog/2015/07/23/the-library-of-babel-as-seen-from-within<br>

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Psychogeography<br>

https://jacket2.org/commentary/avant-garde-iii-situationist-maps-take-two<br>

“Personal Cartographies”: http://www.gpsdrawing.com/press/caj71-JeremyWood.pdf<br>

I am sharing this project on GitHub in the spirit of distribution and DIWO culture.
